[[Property:title|Release notes for EiffelStudio 7.3]]
[[Property:link_title|7.3]]
[[Property:weight|10]]
[[Property:uuid|8fd95935-df4c-22f6-56d3-b3ea559d0342]]
==Graphical environment==

===What's new===
* A [[change analysis]] for documents in the [[Eiffel Information System]] where one can be notified of which documents to update when a class is modified, and conversely whenever a document is modified which classes might need updating.
* EiffelStudio will now show you the contracts of a feature when completing code, letting you quickly find out the proper way to call it.
* When debugging, moving the mouse pointer over an expression will cause the debugger to evaluate the expression and display its computation result in a tooltip.

===Improvements===
* Used void-safety settings of a target to list libraries that are compatible with it and provided more details on their void-safety status in the dialog for adding libraries.

===Changes===
* In [[AutoTest]], tests will be executed under the location of the Eiffel configuration file (ECF) and not in the Testing subdirectory of the EIFGENs directory.

===Bug fixes===
* Fixed a memory corruption that would occur when you have multiple errors during a compilation and you are opening each error in its own tab editor: after opening 4 or 5 tabs, EiffelStudio could become unstable. 
* Fixed a crash after saving a diagram as a PNG file.

==Compiler==
* Click [[Major changes between ISE Eiffel 7.2 and ISE Eiffel 7.3|here]] for the compiler release notes.

==Debugger==
===Graphical environment===
* Added ability to evaluate expressions by simply hovering over the feature tool while debugging.

==EiffelBuild==
* Click [[EiffelBuild Version History|here]]  for the EiffelBuild release notes.

==Libraries==

===EiffelBase===
* Updated <e>TUPLE</e> and depending classes to separate entities.
* Updated <e>ROUTINE</e> and descendants to be usable for agents with separate targets.
* Fixed a comparison bug with <e>EQUALITY_TUPLE</e> which actually would only compare the last elements.
* Made <e>INTERNAL</e> obsolete. It is now replaced by two sets of classes: a static introspection class and a dynamic one. The class that lets you examine the static content is <e>REFLECTOR</e>; most references to <e>INTERNAL</e> can easily be replaced by <e>REFLECTOR</e>. To inspect objects, you have a new set of classes starting with <e>REFLECTED_OBJECT</e>. This lets you inspect objects with copy semantics without actually causing a copy each time you access it, unlike what was happening before with <e>INTERNAL</e>.
* Fixed a reallocation bug in <e>SED_MEMORY_READER_WRITER</e> where if you retrieve a large chunk, we would not allocate enough memory.
* Added ability to store/retrieve expanded objects and objects with copy semantics with SED.
* Storables made using SED from version 6.6 or earlier of EiffelStudio not using the `is_for_fast_retrieval` setting won't be recoverable.

===EiffelStore===
* Do not remove trailing spaces for string content.
* Changed the type mapping for string objects to varchar instead of char at table allocation for ODBC.

===EiffelVision2===
* [[Revisions and Bug Fixes|Click here for EiffelVision2 release notes.]]

===WEL===
* Fixed a 64-bit truncation bug in the message dispatcher of WEL.
* Fixed a memory corruption that would occur when loading a 32-bit BMP image as a background image of a container in a 16-bit or lower display.
* Fixed an issue with <e>WEL_CHOOSE_FOLDER_DIALOG</e> where <e>set_starting_path</e> had no effect.

[[EiffelStudio release notes|Click here to check out what was new in other versions]]

