[[Property:modification_date|Mon, 02 Oct 2023 10:25:19 GMT]]
[[Property:publication_date|Mon, 02 Oct 2023 10:22:20 GMT]]
[[Property:uuid|AF5801CA-928B-4870-BCC4-53DCAB23AF96]]
[[Property:weight|10]]
[[Property:title|Workaround Eiffel .NET limitations]]
[[Property:link_title|Workarounds]]

==Using generic .NET classes through a facade==
Currently, Eiffel does not support consuming generics from C# classes. This tutorial demonstrates a workaround for this limitation by creating a Facade for a `List<string>` in C#

===Creating a facade for the List type===
A Facade simplifies access to complex components. In this case, we will create a Facade to manage a list of strings. The Facade will encapsulate the list's functionality and expose a more straightforward interface. Here's how you can do it:

<code lang="cs">
using System.Collections;
namespace ListOfString;

/// <summary>
/// Facade for a List<string> that encapsulates the list's functionality and exposes a few methods
/// </summary>
public class ListOfString
{
    private List<string> _list;

    public ListOfString()
    {
        _list = new List<string>();
    }

    public void Add(string item)
    {
        _list.Add(item);
    }

    public bool Contains(string item)
    {
        return _list.Contains(item);
    }

    public void Remove(string item)
    {
        _list.Remove(item);
    }

    public IList GetList()
    {
        return _list.ToList();
    }
}
</code>

===Creating a C# library===
To consume the Facade in Eiffel, we need to create a C# library. I recommend following the tutorial on creating a class library with C# and .NET on Microsoft’s official site. You can access it [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tutorials/library-with-visual-studio?pivots=dotnet-7-0 here]. This tutorial guides you through the process of creating a class library using C# and .NET.

===Consuming the C# library from Eiffel===
Finally, we need to consume the C# library from Eiffel. 

Open the Eiffel configuration file (.ecf) of your project and add the following entry

<code><assembly name="ListOfString" location="$PATH_CS_LIB\ListOfString.dll"/></code>


===Conclusion===
By creating a Facade for a `List<string>` in C#, we can effectively consume C# generic features in Eiffel. 
This approach can be extended to other generic types as well.

