[[Property:title|Release notes for EiffelStudio 13.11]]
[[Property:link_title|13.11]]
[[Property:weight|9]]
[[Property:uuid|6610b1df-9530-9850-d568-20f14d4eb044]]
==Graphical environment==

===What's new===
* Eiffel Information System links and other type of links are now clickable in the editor.
* Editor shows both the Unix style or Windows style for new lines.
* Added wrapper for the ZeroMQ messaging library.
* Added ABEL, an object persistent layer on top of in-memory or relational databases.
* Added support for Sun C compiler on Linux for RHEL, OL and Ubuntu 8.04. Other Linux distributions are not supported.

===Improvements===
* Improved debug tooltip for nested feature call evaluation.
* Improved completion window/tooltip positioning with respect to monitor coordinates and multiple displays.
* Improved command line behavior of running tests to automatically perform the necessary compilation steps to test compiled system.
* Completion and pick and drops will now work more reliably reliably after many edits.
* Added void-safe version of Gobo. Only arguments, test, tools and XML are not yet void-safe.

===Changes===
* We have changed our versioning scheme: we will use as the major revision the last 2 digits of the current year, here 13, and as minor the month of the release, here 11. Next release will therefore be 14.05.
* When a Unicode character as an ASCII equivalent we will not silently convert it to the ASCII equivalent.

===Bug fixes===
* Fixed "Evaluator Died" error when running tests in AutoTest when using certain combinations of root class and creation procedure.
* Fixed bug#18563: Supported renaming of features used in qualified anchored types when refactoring code.
* Fixed bug#16960: Fixed an exception when showing an inherited class invariant with qualified anchored types.
* Fixed bug#18606: When completing some code you can see that the entries are shifting by one pixel. It is only visible via remote desktop or when desktop composition is disabled.
* Fixed bug#18614: Moving text containing Unicode characters in the editor will lose the Unicode characters.
* Fixed bug#18611: Preventing an EiffelStudio hang when browsing ECF in the group tool when ECF refers to each other recursively.
* Fixed bug#18679: Clicking locate button in the Eiffel Information System tool when editor is empty would crash EiffelStudio.

==Compiler==
* Click [[Major changes between ISE Eiffel 7.3 and ISE Eiffel 13.11|here]] for the compiler release notes.

==Debugger==
N/A

==EiffelBuild==
* Click [[EiffelBuild Version History|here]]  for the EiffelBuild release notes.

==Libraries==

===EiffelBase===
* Added parenthesis aliases for <e>PROCEDURE.call</e> and <e>FUNCTION.item</e> so that the calls to agents <e>foo.call (1, 2, 3)</e> and <e>x := bar.item ("qux")</e> can be replaced with <e>foo (1, 2, 3)</e> and <e>x := bar ("qux")</e>.
* Made <e>TUPLE</e> an iterable structure.
* Added <e>{TUPLE}.plus</e> which will concatenate 2 tuples.
* Fixed typo in <e>{TUPLE}.is_uniform_character_32</e>
* Added features <e>{TYPE}.is_conforming_to</e> and <e>{TYPE}.is_strictly_conforming_to</e> as implementations of the comparison queries from <e>PART_COMPARABLE</e> to support partial order on type objects (rev#92913).
* Added functions <e>{TUPLE}.new_tuple_from_special</e> and <e>{TUPLE}.new_tuple_from_tuple</e> to create a tuple of a specified type filled with given values (rev#92917).
* Added features <e>{ROUTINE}.flexible_call</e> and <e>{FUNCTION}.flexible_item</e> that accept argument tuples whose type should not exactly match the type of the routine as soon as the types of arguments match (rev#92918).
* Marked <e>{ROUTINE}.empty_operands</e> as obsolete to be ready for removal in the future as non-void-safe (rev#92918).
* In <e>HASH_TABLE</e>, in the event of a mismatch, it is possible that the value of `control` was invalid (see bug#18670) so we reset it to 0. 
* Introspection changes in <e>OBJECT_GRAPH_TRAVERSABLE</e>:
**Rewrote <e>traverse</e> to fix an issue with objects with expanded fields where we would not recurse into them. Added support for <e>SPECIAL</e> of expanded as well. We still have restrictions for <e>TUPLE</e> with expanded for which a copy be done.
** Added new callbacks <e>on_processing_object_action</e> and <e>on_processing_reference_action</e> each time a new object is traversed, that help building a graph of objects.
** Added <e>has_failed</e> to find if the traversal succeeded or not.
** Added the ability to trigger or not an exception when a copy of an expanded object is done when we do not want any. Also we let user choose if exceptions will be raised to callers.

===EiffelVision2===
* [[Revisions and Bug Fixes|Click here for EiffelVision2 release notes.]]

===Eiffel Editor ===
* Stop translating %R%N into %N on input, we now keep the original text to ensure positioning information can be easily converted by code reading text files.
* Draw a symbol for new lines when formatting marks are displayed: "¯" is used for Unix style new line and "¬" is used for Windows style new line.

===Web Browser===
* Added <e>is_browser_usable</e> to know if the browser library is available.
* Simplified compilation of unix side of the library to load the webkit shared library at runtime without requiring it at compile time.

===XML===
* Fixed XML cases where we have <foo att/> or <foo att> ... take into account the attribute `att` but report missing value for attribute `att`.
* Add report_unsupported_bom_value routine to report unsupported BOM value error.

[[EiffelStudio release notes|Click here to check out what was new in other versions]]

