[[Property:title|Release notes for EiffelStudio 13.11]]
[[Property:link_title|13.11]]
[[Property:weight|9]]
[[Property:uuid|6610b1df-9530-9850-d568-20f14d4eb044]]
==Graphical environment==

===What's new===
* Eiffel Information System links and other type of links are now clickable in the editor.
* Editor shows both the Unix style or Windows style for new lines.

===Improvements===
* Improved debug tooltip for nested feature call evaluation.
* Improved completion window/tooltip positioning with respect to monitor coordinates and multiple displays.
* Improved command line behavior of running tests to automatically perform the necessary compilation steps to test compiled system.
* Completion and pick and drops will now work more reliably reliably after many edits.

===Changes===

===Bug fixes===
* Fixed "Evaluator Died" error when running tests in AutoTest when using certain combinations of root class and creation procedure.
* Fixed bug#18563: Supported renaming of features used in qualified anchored types when refactoring code.
* Fixed bug#16960: Fixed an exception when showing an inherited class invariant with qualified anchored types.
* Fixed bug#18606: When completing some code you can see that the entries are shifting by one pixel. It is only visible via remote desktop or when desktop composition is disabled.
* Fixed bug#18614: Moving text containing Unicode characters in the editor will loose the Unicode characters.
* Fixed bug#18611: Preventing an EiffelStudio hang when browsing ECF in the group tool when ECF refers to each other recursively.
* Fixed bug#18679: Clicking locate button in the Eiffel Information System tool when editor is empty would crash EiffelStudio.

==Compiler==
* Click [[Major changes between ISE Eiffel 7.3 and ISE Eiffel 13.11|here]] for the compiler release notes.

==Debugger==

==EiffelBuild==
* Click [[EiffelBuild Version History|here]]  for the EiffelBuild release notes.

==Libraries==

===EiffelBase===
===EiffelStore===
===EiffelVision2===
* [[Revisions and Bug Fixes|Click here for EiffelVision2 release notes.]]

===Eiffel Editor ===
* Stop translating %R%N into %N on input, we now keep the original text to ensure positioning information can be easily converted by code reading text files.

===WEL===

[[EiffelStudio release notes|Click here to check out what was new in other versions]]

