[[Property:title|Release notes for EiffelStudio 7.1]]
[[Property:link_title|7.1]]
[[Property:weight|12]]
[[Property:uuid|551e30c1-395c-27cb-e81f-d57204e68cc5]]
==Graphical environment==

===What's new===
* New SCOOP processor garbage collection which now lets you create more than 1500 processors during one execution. There is still a limit on the number of concurrent processors you might have.
* Added the Eiffel Web Framework contribution to build web applications or services in Eiffel.
* Added inclusion of EiffelBase2 as a contribution.
* Added support for specifying C compiler flags and linker flags.
* Preview of GTK3 support which includes a HTML5 back-end for EiffelVision applications.
* Added support for EIFFEL_LIBRARY environment variable, if set and ISE_LIBRARY is not set by the current user, the former will be used to locate libraries.

===Improvements===
* Better copy/paste of code to avoid useless reformatting after copying and pasting a block of text. The smart behavior is available via Ctrl+V or Shift+Ins. If the new behavior is not adequate, Ctrl+Shift+V will paste as is.
* Better formatting of Eiffel source code when using the pretty printer.
* Better performance of SCOOP runtime for certain types of concurrent calls.
* Printing in postscript mode now allowed on Unix (previously, printing always defaulted to RTF).
* Take into account mice with high resolution wheels.
* Avoid flashing when completion window is updated at each keystroke.

===Changes===
* Removed addition of .NET targets in our project configuration templates to make it easier on new users to compile a project out of the box.

===Bug fixes===
* Fixed support of non-ASCII keyboard characters on Unix platforms.
* Fixed issue with automatically generated tests which included tests that should have been excluded because they represented invalid tests (e.g. precondition failures). 
* Fixed issue where EiffelStudio would fail while trying to generate tests for a generic type whose generic derivation doesn't exist in the system.
* Fixed a runtime issue when testing automatically generated tests for a void-safe program, they would always fail instead of passing (when they should be passing).
* Fixed a failure of EiffelStudio when trying to display the help of a compiler error.
* Fixed disappearance of dashed pick and drop lines on Windows.
* Fixed an issue where trying to perform a diff inside the console tool would crash EiffelStudio.

==Compiler==
* Click [[Major changes between ISE Eiffel 7.0 and ISE Eiffel 7.1|here]] for the compiler release notes.

==Debugger==
* Click [[Release notes for EiffelStudio 7.1 related to the debugger|here]]  for the EiffelStudio debugger release notes.

==EiffelBuild==
* Click [[EiffelBuild Version History|here]]  for the EiffelBuild release notes.

==Libraries==

===EiffelBase===
* Fixed a bug with {ARRAY}.force when the new lower index is less than the old lower index - count.
* Fixed a bug with {ARRAY}.force where if the items had to move, we forget to reset the newly allocated area.
* Corrected precondition of {ARRAY}.force that did not allow storing elements at existing indexes.
* Added {PLATFORM}.is_scoop_capable to find out if a system is compiled using a SCOOP capable runtime.
* Added ability to create a local string using a separate string.
* Moved most of the queries of strings descendants (e.g. is_readl, is_integer, ...) to READABLE_STRING_GENERAL to make it easier to handle all the various kinds of strings.
* Added {HASH_TABLE}.disjoint to find out if 2 tables have some common elements or not based on the key comparison criteria.
* Made explicit that the `area' is shared between an ARRAY and an ARRAYED_LIST created via conversion.
* Fixed improper implementation of `copy' for UNIX_FILE_INFO and BOOL_STRING which caused for the former a sharing of some FILE specific information.
* Fixed {STRING_32}.left_adjust that did not work properly when the string contained only white spaces. 
* Fixed an issue with {FILE}.exists on Windows 32-bit when files are larger than 2GB. It only occurs with the latest version of the Microsoft C++ compiler (VS2010 or later).

===EiffelStore===
* Added support for XML data in ODBC
* Fixed an issue with retrieving blob of null-size.
* Added ability to connect to several databases at once for the same database handle.
* Added ability to connect to an ODBC database using a connection string.
* Improved support for MySQL.
* Added query to find out how many rows have been affected by the last query.
* Made sure that errors are properly propagated when calling {DATABASE_MANAGER}.execute_query_without_commit.

===EiffelThread===
* Breaking change in class THREAD, descendants should now call {THREAD}.make in order to initialize threads properly.
* Fixed a memory corruption issue when many threads are exiting at once, or that a child thread exits immediately after its parent but the parent is not yet finished in its termination.

===EiffelTime===
* Fixed improper parsing of 2 digit hours.

===EiffelVision2===
* [[Revisions and Bug Fixes|Click here for EiffelVision2 release notes.]]

===Web Browser Library===
* Fixed a C compilation issue when finalizing a project using this library.

===WEL===
* Added ability to print to a specific printer or the default printer without having to show the printer dialog.
* Added support for loading EMF files through WEL_GDIP_METAFILE.
* Fixed an issue with WEL_DISK_SPACE that was not working in 64-bit mode. The fix implies a breaking change in that now we return a NATURAL_64 instead of an INTEGER_32.
* Added SCOOP support.



[[EiffelStudio release notes|Click here to check out what was new in other versions]]  

