[[Property:title|Annotation Management]]
[[Property:weight|1]]
[[Property:uuid|696457ef-ac1f-40c1-a0da-54900d9cccf8]]
Information Tool provides information management functions: adding, modifying and removing. 
{{note| '''Note: '''Annotation management is only available in lists coresponding to nodes rather than tag nodes - all tags and "Items without tag". }}

==Adding==

For each kind of nodes in the information tree, related annotations are listed in the right annotaton list. At the end of such lists, double clicking the blank line with '''"..."''' in the '''Name''' column creates a new unnamed annotation. One could modify the new entry into what he wants. See the following section '''Modifying'''.

==Modifying==

To modify an annotation, one can use Information Tool or do it by code.
*  By Information Tool, a line in the annotation list should be selected, then click into columns and activate editing/choosing mode. Once the editing area/drop down list is deactivated, the modification is done and synchronized into code automatically. 
*  By code, one simply modifies code in the editor, or .ecf files in external editor (not recommented). 
{{seealso| '''See Also''' <br/>
[[EIS: Outgoing|Syntax for Annotations]]  }}


==Removing==

By pressing '''Delete''', or clicking the third button on the bottom toolbar deletes all selected annotations in the list. And corresponding code is synchronized.

{{note| '''Note: '''Annotation list can be multi-selected. }}

{{note| All means to manage annotations via the tool are inreversible, except that the location - class or feature - has been opened in the editor, thus undo can be achieved via the editor. Removing is prompted on user demands. The tag tree is automatically updated when annotations are added/modified/removed or through system sweeping. }}




