[[Property:title|Edit menu commands]]
[[Property:weight|8]]
In the '''Edit''' menu, the following commands are available: 
*  [[History functionality|Undo]] : undo last change. 
*  [[History functionality|Redo]] : redo last undone change. 
*  [[Clipboard functionality|Cut]] : Cut [[Selection|selected]]  text. 
*  [[Clipboard functionality|Copy]] : Copy [[Selection|selected]]  text. 
*  [[Clipboard functionality|Paste]] : Paste text from the clipboard. 
*  [[Selection|Select All]] : Select the entire text. 
*  [[Search tool|Find]] : Show and go to the [[Search tool|search panel]] . 
*  [[Search tool|Replace]] : Show and go to the [[Search tool|search panel]]  with replace option activated. 
*  Toggle Line Numbers: Show or hide the line numbers in the current editor. 
*  [[Search functionality|Search]] : 
**  [[Search functionality|Find next]] : Find the next occurrence of the last searched expression. 
**  [[Search functionality|Find previous]] : Find the previous occurrence of the last searched expression. 
**  [[Search functionality|Find selection]] : Find the next occurrence of the selected text. 

* Advanced 
**  [[Indent and un indent  selection|Indent selection]]  
**  [[Indent and un indent  selection|Unindent selection]]  
**  [[Comment and uncomment lines|Comment]]  
**  [[Comment and uncomment lines|Uncomment]]  
**  [[Embed lines in 'if then...end' or in 'debug...end'|Embed in if...]]  
**  [[Embed lines in 'if then...end' or in 'debug...end'|Embed in debug...]]  
**  [[Feature call auto complete|Complete word]]  
**  [[Class name auto complete|Complete class name]]  

*  [[Preference window overview|Preferences]]  




