[[Property:title|EiffelBuild Version History]]
[[Property:weight|2]]
[[Property:uuid|8cc0540e-8ee7-c005-0534-a2ed62f41c96]]
==6.5 Release==
* Fixed bug#15947 to make the generated code compiles in void-safe mode.
* Fixed bug#13296 when retrieving a project using an EV_SPIN_BUTTON element.
* Fixed bug#12880 by improving speed of key navigation wich was slow down by attempting to refresh the object editor each time a new widget was highlighted. Now it is only done when the highlight doesn't change for a while.

==6.4 Release==
No changes.

==6.3 Release==
No changes.

==6.2 Release==
No changes.

==6.1 Release==
No changes.

==6.0 Release==
* Code generation includes the facility of closing the application when last window is closed.
* The EiffelBuild binary has been renamed into '''esbuilder'''.
* Fixed crash when generating code which included a combo box in read-only mode.
* Fixed bug#12920 where pressing a digit while dropping was not adding x-time the selected widgets (where x is the digit pressed).
* Fixed bug#12210 where pixmaps set on a menu would be incorrectly displayed in the generated executable (The last added one will always be shown for all menu entries with a pixmap).
* Fixed bug#11878 where EiffelBuild would crash when saving a project just after removing an event.
* Fixed bug#11738 where EiffelBuild would crash when picking and dropping a top level widget into the Generate button.

==5.7 Release==
* Fixed positioning bug when moving items within their current parent by dropping on another item in that parent with the shift key held down.
* Fixed bug where modifying the "User can resize" property of a window while the tools were always shown on top stopped the tools from being shown on top.
* Added support for multi-line tooltips.
* Added support for `is_item_expanded' from EV_SPLIT_AREA.
* Added the ability to specify a directory for generation, into which location all files are to be generated.
* Event selection dialogs now contain the name of the object to which they refer in their title for cases where multiple dialogs are open simultaneously
* The project settings dialog is now completely navigatable via the keyboard on Windows platforms.
* Added support for Ctrl+Z and Ctrl+Y to navigate through the history.
* The font selection dialog now shows the currently selected font when displayed.
* Deleting an object that is contained within an object editor now clears the contents of the object editor.
* Preferences window now has the focus when displayed so it is fully navigatable via the keyboard.
* Code generation improved to allow the modifying of constants and subsequent update of the interface, permitting multiple languages to be supported.

==5.6 Release==
* Added support for the generation of any widget as a class. You now may place widgets within the "Widget Selector" to enable this. The "Widget Selector" is simply the old "Widget Selector" renamed.
* Added clipboard functionality, permitting the copying/pasting of objects.
* Added support for new constant types: Font and Color.

==5.5 Release==
* Added support for EV_RICH_TEXT which has been added to EiffelVision2.
* Notebook item texts may now be set to string constants.
* Better support for corrupt installations with warning dialogs now displayed.
* Fixed bug with generated code for notebooks often hiding the first item when they were actually displayed.

==5.4 Release==
* Added support for multiple windows, including dialogs.
* Added support for constants of type Integer, String, Directory and Pixmap.
* New tool, "Widget Selector" added to handle organization of windows, including the ability to define subdirectories in a project, and group windows accordingly.
* Tip of the day dialog added.
* Recent projects are now available from the "File" menu.
* The contents of EiffelBuild projects may now be imported.
* The ability to reset the minimum dimensions of widgets have been added. In the previous version, it was not possible to complete undo the effects of setting a widgets minimum size.
* Preferences added, which allow you to customize the default behavior of EiffelBuild. For example, dialogs may be displayed or hidden as desired.
* The layout of EiffelBuild and its tools is now maintained between sessions.
* Docking added, permitting the re-ordering of particular tools within the interface, including making them "float" externally.
* Smarter code generation options, permitting only named attributes to be exported.




