[[Property:modification_date|Mon, 11 Nov 2019 19:13:26 GMT]]
[[Property:publication_date|Mon, 11 Nov 2019 19:13:26 GMT]]
[[Property:title|Supported C compilers]]
[[Property:weight|-14]]
[[Property:uuid|4d4a70fa-b6da-cecb-83e0-dcc18d6ed54a]]
==Unix/Linux Users:==

EiffelStudio supports `gcc` on most platforms and the native `cc` compiler if it is an ANSI C compiler.


==Microsoft Windows Users==

EiffelStudio supports Microsoft and MinGW compilers on Microsoft Windows.

===Microsoft Visual C++ Users===

EiffelStudio supports versions 10.0 and higher of the Microsoft Visual Studio C++ environment. This is available in Visual Studio 2010 or higher revision, or in version of the Windows SDK 7.1 or higher.

EiffelStudio will automatically detect the location of the C compiler.

By default the installation program will set in the registry keys the <code lang="text">ISE_C_COMPILER</code> key to `msc` (for versions 12.0 and below) or `msc_vc140` (for Visual Studio C++ 2015 and later.)

===MinGW Users===

By default the installation program will set in the registry keys the <code lang="text">ISE_C_COMPILER</code> key to `mingw`.

In versions as late as 6.6, there is a [[EiffelCOM Wizard Guided Tour|restriction]] that prevents the use of EiffelCOM with the MinGW compiler.

===Changing your C compiler on Windows===

You can do it in either of two different ways. 

You can manually edit the registry key <code lang="text">HKLM\Software\ISE\EiffelNN</code> and change the value of the <code lang="text">ISE_C_COMPILER</code> string key to either `msc` (`msc_vc140`) or `mingw` depending upon the effect you desire.

Alternatively, you can set the environment variable <code lang="text">ISE_C_COMPILER</code> to either `msc` (`msc_vc140`) or `mingw`.

{| style="width: auto; margin: 0 auto;"
|+ Reference information about supported C compilers on Windows
! Compiler
! Value of <code lang="text">ISE_C_COMPILER</code>
|-
| MinGW
| `mingw`
|-
| Microsoft Visual Studio C++ 2010 (v10.0)
| `msc`
|-
| Microsoft Visual Studio C++ 2012 (v11.0)
| `msc`
|-
| Microsoft Visual Studio C++ 2013 (v12.0)
| `msc`
|-
| Microsoft Visual Studio C++ 2015 (v14.0)
| `msc_vc140`
|-
| Microsoft Visual Studio C++ 2017 (v14.1)
| `msc_vc140`
|-
| Microsoft Visual Studio C++ 2019 (v14.2)
| `msc_vc140`
|-
|}

===Availability of free compilers===

'' Microsoft ''

Download the free [https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/|Visual Studio Community Edition]

If required  download [https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2977003/the-latest-supported-visual-c-downloads|Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable for Visual Studio 2015, 2017 and 2019]. 

'' MinGW ''

Copy included with the Eiffel Software distribution.
