[[Property:title|Major changes between ISE Eiffel 6.3 and ISE Eiffel 6.4]]
[[Property:link_title|6.4]]
[[Property:weight|-11]]
[[Property:uuid|08206c9f-42fc-d007-ca09-4cf6a42207c2]]
==What's new==
{{seealso|[[Differences between standard ECMA-367 and Eiffel Software implementation|Differences between standard ECMA-367 and Eiffel Software implementation]] }}
* Added support for iPhone platform.

==Improvements==
# Made precompilations work on Mac OS X. 
# Improved inlining of deferred routines implemented as attributes or constants in INLINER by allowing their inlining.

==Changes==
* Ensured that particular options specified in a library cannot be overridden in a project, because they apply to the source code (e.g., specify a variant of a syntax) rather than to the code generation (e.g., specify which assertions have to be monitored). 

==Bug fixes==
* Fixed eweasel test#incr322 and test#final079 where compiler would crash when a routine was implemented as an attribute that can be access statically in final mode. 
Fixed eweasel test#incr322 and test#final079 which caused a crash during finalization of a call to a deferred routine implemented as an attribute with a body or some assertions. 


===Language issues===

===Compiler issues===
* Incremented ECF XML schema version to reflect the recent changes.
* Replaced ECF schema attribute syntax_level of an integer type with syntax of a string type that contains one of the three possible values.
* Replaced ECF schema attribute is_void_safe of a boolean type with void_safety of a string type that contains one of the three possible values (none - no void safety checks, all - all void safety checks, initialization - on-demand void safety checks, i.e. only for entities that are attached).


===Runtime/code generation issues===
* Fixed broken generation of single threaded DLL. 

===Store/Retrieve issues===


