[[Property:title|Major changes between ISE Eiffel 7.1 and ISE Eiffel 7.2]]
[[Property:link_title|7.2]]
[[Property:weight|11]]
[[Property:uuid|a063cc22-7638-e0cf-7d92-93aca615a283]]
==What's new==
* Added support for parsing Eiffel classes located in Unicode path.

==Improvements==
* Better error messages for VBAC(3), VBAR(2), VUTA(2) and VD80.
* Fixed latency issues regarding SCOOP client and supplier processor.

==Changes==
N/A

==Bug fixes==

===Language issues===
N/A

===Compiler issues===
* Fixed bug#18309: Refreezing system with no changes causes all C compilations to be redone.
* Fixed eweasel test#valid278 and test#term188 (bug#18281 and bug#1984) by ensuring that the type used in the objectless call is full valid.

===SCOOP issues===
* Fixed eweasel test#scoop027 to ensure lock passing detection when logging on a chain creator during creation of a new processor.

===Runtime/code generation issues===
* Fixed bug#18299 and eweasel test#exec351 where copying nested expanded would cause a memory corruption.
* Fixed eweasel test#thread024 where mutltithreaded projects could crash during a GC cycle.
* Fixed an issue with <e>EIF_INITIALIZE_AUX_THREAD</e> that would not work properly in workbench mode because it forgot to initialize the interpreter side by calling `<e>xinitint</e>'.
* Fixed a bug during debugging that causes a GC corruption due to the insertion of expanded objects located on the stack in the hector stack which is not allowed.


===Store/Retrieve issues===
N/A

