[[Property:title|Running an application]]
[[Property:weight|0]]
[[Property:uuid|61be4ec3-d50c-21b9-0649-fac9cd7796b9]]
There are several ways to launch an application. Not all are available depending on the way you compiled your system.

Melted and frozen executables can be debugged. Several methods can be used to launch such an executable:
* The default [[Run and stop at breakpoints]] . It launches the executable located in the EIFGENs/target_name/W_code directory under the project directory. The execution stops whenever a breakpoint is encountered. 
* The [[Run without breakpoints]] . It has the same behavior except that the execution won't stop when a breakpoint is met. 
* The step commands, which execute only a small part of the program at a time: 
** The [[Step into a feature]] , which tries to enter the feature that is about to be called. 
** The [[Execute one line at a time]] , which executes one execution line. 
** The [[Step out of a feature]] , which launches the application and stops it as soon as the application exits the feature it is stopped in. 


{{tip|All the above commands can be accessed either in the '''Project''' toolbar or in the '''Debug''' menu. <br/>
They can be used either to launch the program or to resume its execution after it has been paused. }}
* It is also possible to select '''Run to breakpoint''' in a [[Breakpoint editing|breakpoint context menu]]  to have the application be launched and executed until it reaches the selected execution line. 

Finalized executables can also be run, but they are not debuggable and cannot be interrupted. To run a finalized executable, use the [[Run a finalized executable]] , located in the '''Project''' menu and the '''Project''' toolbar. 

{{seealso|<br/>
[[Generating executables|Compiling an executable]]  <br/>
[[Using breakpoints|Using breakpoints]]  <br/>
[[Interrupting an application|Interrupting an application]]  }}




