[[Property:title|Release notes for EiffelStudio 5.1]]
[[Property:link_title|5.1]]
[[Property:weight|-9]]
[[Property:uuid|cab7da39-416f-3330-0f67-b41cb425b537]]
==Graphical environment==
* Numerous improvements in usability and bug fixes.
* Richer class and cluster creation dialogs.
* Class name completion in the editor (by pressing Ctrl+Shift+Space half-way through the class name).
* Editor now supports drag-and-drop of the selection.
* When debugging a project from EiffelStudio, the current directory will be your project directory. It is a change from previous version where: 
** on Windows, it used to be launched in the W_code subdirectory of your project directory
** on Unix, it used to be launched from the same directory where `estudio' (or `ebench') was launched.

* EiffelStudio GUI now also available on Unix platforms and Windows 9x/Me

==Compiler and .NET==
* Click [[Major changes between ISE Eiffel 5.0 and ISE Eiffel 5.1|here]]  for more details on compiler improvements and full Eiffel support on .NET 

==Libraries==

===EiffelBase===
* It is now forbidden to create a <code> BIT_REF </code> or a <code> BIT X </code> object using its creation procedure (before it was accepted but did not work) 
* Added <code> make_temporary_name </code> in <code> FILE_NAME </code> 
* Made <code> to_c </code> obsolete from class <code> INTEGER_INTERVAL </code> 
* Changed semantic of <code> split </code> from class <code> STRING </code> 
* Fixed a bug in <code> clear_all </code> from <code> HASH_TABLE </code> that kept a reference to the last found item. Now it does not keep the reference after a call to <code> clear_all </code>. 

===Vision2===
* Support for Vision2 applications on GTK platforms.
* Some changes in the Vision2 library have been made, [[Revisions and Bug Fixes|check here on how to update your code]] . 

[[EiffelStudio release notes|Click here to check out what was new in other versions]]  




