[[Property:modification_date|Tue, 20 Jan 2026 12:16:49 GMT]]
[[Property:publication_date|Tue, 20 Jan 2026 10:47:22 GMT]]
[[Property:uuid|DA240E9E-2796-4336-B853-F3EAB1D5701E]]
[[Property:title|Release notes for EiffelStudio 25.12]]
[[Property:link_title|25.12]]
[[Property:weight|-12]]

==Compiler==
===Improvements===
* 

===Known Limitations===
* Some .Net limitations exist in the current release that will be addressed in future updates. For detailed information, please refer to the  [https://www.eiffel.org/doc/version/25.02/uuid/fe8a6a7d-4590-0db2-d59a-307082b18ecc Eiffel for .NET documentation].

==Graphical environment==
===New Features===
* 
* 

===Improvements===
* Resolved multiple issues related to importing debugger settings.
* Security: Fixed buffer overflow in GTK binding, memory corruption fixes

* Eiffel Web framework: 
** take into account reverse-proxy when computing the `is_https` and the `server_url`
** Enhanced router with default handler support
** Enhanced custom fallback page implementation
** Improved file serving with automatic index.html handling
** Better OPTIONS request and CORS support
** Enhanced request information handling

* the Eiffel CMS platform:
** Improved user management, and also user registration process.
** simplify creation of landing page (using the "frontpage" css class).
** Added PostgreSQL storage backend for the CMS Eiffel platform (Content Management System)
** CMS API Key Authentication: Token-based authentication module with scope management
** CMS Storage Browser: Database inspection and query execution module
** CMS CLI Interface: Command-line administration tools with interactive shell
** Magic Link Authentication: "Sign In With Email" passwordless login
** Enhanced magic link system to ease integration with external service (for instance JS apps).
** Improved modules: core, admin, admin mails handler, custom_block, ...
** fixed various issues

* MySQL and MariaDB EiffelStore binding: updated to support latest C connector.
* SQLite: major update (updated the C driver)
* Updated a few libraries to get rid of the obsolete iteration cursor usage.

===Libraries===
* New support for POSTGRESQL in EiffelStore library (CRUD operations and transaction support).
* New s3_client library to access AWS S3 buckets or S3 compatible buckets (such minio)
* Minizip library for ZIP file handling
* Updated Gobo libraries to Gobo 25.12 (langserver, storable, and thread libraries)
* Various bug fixes, and minor improvements.
* EiffelBase: updated signatures of type conformance test features. Potential breaking change: the class TYPE does not inherit from PART_COMPARABLE anymore.

===Warnings===
* SCOOP is currently not supported by Eiffel .NET
* For Macos users on M1/M2 (arm) architecture, please read the specific [[Release notes for EiffelStudio 22.12 - macosx|notes about macosx]]
----

See [https://dev.eiffel.com/EiffelStudio_25.12_Releases change log] for more details.
