[[Property:title|Eiffel for .NET Compliance]]
[[Property:weight|9]]
As of EiffelEnvision 2.6, Eiffel for ASP.NET 5.6 and EiffelStudio 5.7; Eiffel for .NET introduces the notion of '''Eiffel-Compliance'''. .NET specifies a number of language interopability rules in a [http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/default.asp?url=/library/en-us/cpguide/html/cpconwhatiscommonlanguagespecification.asp Common Language Specification-Compliance]  specification. Eiffel for .NET supports all CLS-Compliant type and features in .NET but now additionally supports a number of non-CLS-compliant types and features. This is the purpose of the Eiffel-Compliant notion. 

{{note| '''Note''': The information contained within this page does not go into any depth on the Common Language Specification (CLS) or CLS-Compliance. For this information please see Microsoft's on-line documentation [http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/default.asp?url=/library/en-us/cpguide/html/cpconwhatiscommonlanguagespecification.asp What is the Common Language Specification?]  }}
<span id="applicablity"></span> 
==Applicability==

The CLS states a number of rules .NET tools have to abide by to be CLS-compliant. These rules relate to both a .NET producer, generally a compiler generating .NET code, and a consumer, which is generally a compiler that consumes .NET assemblies for reuse. Eiffel-Compliance relates only to consumption of .NET assemblies. 
<span id="what_is_compliant"></span> 
==What is Eiffel-Compliant?==

As already state, anything CLS-compliant is Eiffel-compliant. Eiffel-Compliancy merely allows for exceptions so that non-CLS-compliant assemblies, types and members can be used in Eiffel for .NET. 

The following list outlines the supported non-CLS-compliant types: 
* All unsigned numerical basic types such as <eiffel>System.UInt32</eiffel> as <eiffel>System.UInt64</eiffel>, represented by <eiffel>NATURAL_xx</eiffel>.
* Native pointers (<eiffel>System.IntPtr</eiffel>), represented by <eiffel>POINTER</eiffel>


Typically assemblies, types or members are marked with the <eiffel>System.CLSCompliantAttribute</eiffel> attribute to explicitly indicate if they are CLS-compliant or not. The Eiffel for .NET compiler will now ignore this attribute and instead infer if they are Eiffel-Compliant. With such an inference engine at hand, Eiffel for .NET opens itself up to extended support for COM/Legacy interop as well support assemblies not adhering to CLS-compliant rules, for one reason or another. 




