[[Property:modification_date|Tue, 22 Dec 2020 13:25:18 GMT]]
[[Property:publication_date|Tue, 08 Dec 2020 08:39:55 GMT]]
[[Property:uuid|789BFB80-6C53-4E92-B061-C0C1758838DB]]
[[Property:title|Release notes for EiffelStudio 20.11]]
[[Property:link_title|20.11]]
[[Property:weight|-5]]
==Graphical environment==
* Made AutoTest compatible with void safety settings.
* Added a pretty printer notification when the pretty-printed code is different from the current one.
* Added preferences to control default values of CAT-call detection in the debugger and reporting in the console.
* Added a new WrapC wizard (C wrapping utility)
* The standard edition requires an account to sign in (see https://account.eiffel.com/).

==Compiler==
* Supported [https://www.eiffel.org/blog/Alexander%20Kogtenkov/2020/12/once-classes once classes].
* Extended the message about successful compilation with a notification if warnings were detected.
* Dropped obsolete syntax with exclamation marks (creation instruction and type attachment marks).
* Decreased the number of false positives reported by the code analyzer for `CA022` (unreachable code) violations.

==Libraries==
* Removed all the `*-safe.ecf` configuration files as they were obsoleted by capabilities introduced a few releases ago.
* Improved the web CMS by removing various potential vulnerabilities, improving the web form API and the authentication system. Updated reCAPTCHA support to version 3.
* Added a new library `uri_launcher` in `library/runtime/process`.
* Extended the (unstable) `base_extension` library with classes for graphs, B-trees, and union-find.
* Added 3 new wrappers for mpack, cairo, and rsvg C libraries (available via <a href="https://iron.eiffel.com/">iron</a>).

----

See [https://dev.eiffel.com/EiffelStudio_20.11_Releases change log] for more details.
