[[Property:modification_date|Fri, 14 Jun 2024 15:56:11 GMT]]
[[Property:publication_date|Mon, 03 Jun 2024 09:41:04 GMT]]
[[Property:uuid|65E6D99C-616E-4335-9667-EF7FD82DA920]]
[[Property:title|Release notes for EiffelStudio 24.05]]
[[Property:link_title|24.05]]
[[Property:weight|-10]]

==Compiler==
===Major Improvements===

* '''Enhanced .NETCore Compilation Support''': This version significantly enhances compilation support for .NETCore (versions net6.0, net7.0, and net8.0)
**  '''Partial Support for .NET Generic Methods''': Improved handling and compatibility with .NET generic methods.
**  '''PDB File Generation''': Enables debugging from external tools with generated Program Database (PDB) files.
** '''Eiffel .NETCore Debugging''': Integrated debugging facilities for Eiffel .NETCore directly within EiffelStudio (currently available only on Windows).

===Known Limitations===
* Some .Net limitations exist in the current release that will be addressed in future updates. For detailed information, please refer to the  [https://www.eiffel.org/doc/version/23.09/uuid/fe8a6a7d-4590-0db2-d59a-307082b18ecc Eiffel for .NET documentation].

==Graphical environment==
===New Features===
*  '''Composer Command Enhancements''': Eiffel 24.05 introduces new composer commands to streamline common editing operations:
** '''Create Setter for an Attribute''': Easily generate setter methods for attributes.
** '''Add New Creation Procedures''': Simplified process to add new creation procedures.
** '''Remove Selected Feature''': Quickly remove selected features from your project.
** ''Note: the shortcuts `Ctrl+Shift+E, Ctrl+S` means, press `Ctrl+Shift+E` then `Ctrl+S` (i.e 2 step shortcut)''
* [Ctrl]+[Up] and [Ctrl]+[Down] to scroll up or down the editor by one line.
** Additional commands will be available in future releases.

===New Authentication Method
* '''Web Browser "Sign-in" Challenge''': Introduces a new authentication method using the "Sign-in" challenge via a web browser.

===Libraries===
* Ensured EiffelBase, WEL, Vision2 libraries are supported by Eiffel .NETCore compilation.
* Various bug fixes, and minor improvements.

===Warnings===
* SCOOP is currently not supported by Eiffel .NET
* For Macos users on M1/M2 (arm) architecture, please read the specific [[Release notes for EiffelStudio 22.12 - macosx|notes about macosx]]
----

See [https://dev.eiffel.com/EiffelStudio_24.05_Releases change log] for more details.
===