[[Property:title|Invitation to Eiffel Copyright]]
[[Property:link_title|I2E: Invitation to Eiffel Copyright]]
[[Property:weight|0]]
[[Property:uuid|ce7b4af4-b669-9fec-92e1-c24c4f089336]]
Title: Invitation to Eiffel, Eiffel Software Technical Report TR-EI-67/IV. 

==Publication history==
First published 1987. Some revisions (in particular Web versions) have used the title "Eiffel in a Nutshell" <br/>
This version: July 2001. Introduces coverage of agents; several other improvements. Corresponds to release 5.0 of the EiffelStudio environment. 
==Author==
Bertrand Meyer 
==Software Credits==
See acknowledgments in book [http://www.eiffel.com/doc/page.html Eiffel: The Language] . 
==Cover Design==
Rich Ayling. 
==Copyright notice and proprietary information==
Copyright Interactive Software Engineering Inc. (Eiffel Software), 2001. May not be reproduced in any form (including electronic storage) without the written permission of Eiffel Software . "Eiffel Power" and the Eiffel Power logo are trademarks of Eiffel Software . All uses of the product documented here are subject to the terms and conditions of the Eiffel Software Eiffel user license. Any other use or duplication is a violation of the applicable laws on copyright, trade secrets and intellectual property. 
==Special duplication permission for educational institutions==
Degree-granting educational institutions using Eiffel Software Eiffel for teaching purposes as part of the [http://www.eiffel.com/educators/resources.html Eiffel University Partnership Program]  may be permitted under certain conditions to copy specific parts of this book. Contact Eiffel Software for details. 
{{info|About Eiffel Software (Interactive Software Engineering) helps you produce software better, faster and cheaper. Eiffel Software provides a wide range of products and services based on object technology, including Eiffel Software Eiffel, a complete development environment for the full system life cycle. Eiffel Software's training courses, available worldwide, cover key management and technical topics. Eiffel Software's consultants are available to address your project needs at all levels. Eiffel Software's TOOLS (Technology of Object-Oriented Languages and Systems) conferences, [http://www.tools-conferences.com http://www.tools-conferences.com] , are the meeting point for anyone interested in the software technologies of the future. Eiffel Software originated one of the earliest . NET products and offers a full range of . NET services and training at [http://www.dotnetexperts.com http://www.dotnetexperts.com] . }}

==For more information==
Interactive Software Engineering Inc. <br/>
Eiffel Software Building, <br/>
356 Storke Road, <br/>
Goleta, <br/>
CA, 93117 <br/>
USA. <br/>
<br/>
Telephone 805-685-1006, <br/>
Fax 805-685-6869 
==Internet and email==
Eiffel Software maintains a rich source of information at [http://eiffel.com http://eiffel.com] , with more than 1200 Web pages including online documentation, downloadable files, product descriptions, links to Eiffel Software partners, University Partnership program, mailing list archives, announcements, press coverage, Frequently Asked Questions, Support pages, and much more. Visit [http://www.eiffel.com/general/contact_details.html http://www.eiffel.com/general/contact_details.html]  to request information about products and services. To subscribe to the Eiffel Software Eiffel user list, go to [http://groups.eiffel.com/join http://groups.eiffel.com/join] . 
==Support programs==
Eiffel Software offers a variety of support options tailored to the diverse needs of its customers. See [http://support.eiffel.com http://support.eiffel.com]  for details. 



