[[Property:title|Attach application]]
[[Property:link_title|]]
[[Property:weight|0]]
[[Property:uuid|e369df0f-2e1f-5730-ae67-cd7b60b55c5f]]
Usually when you want to debug an application, you launch it from EiffelStudio and the debugger is automatically attached to the execution of the application.
However for specific needs (such as server development), you might want to start the execution outside EiffelStudio, and then attach EiffelStudio's debugger to it.

Requirements:
* The application should be compiled in workbench mode. 
* EiffelStudio should be opened on the project used to compile the application.

How to make it work?
* The application execution will wait for the debugger to connect on a specific port number (given by the user).

There are 2 ways to provide this port number:
* setting the <code>ISE_DBG_PORTNUM</code> environment variable to a specific port number. When this environment variable is set, the application, right after starting, will immediately wait for EiffelStudio to attach the process
* calling <eiffel>{RT_DEBUGGER}.rt_workbench_wait_for_debugger (a_port_number: INTEGER)</eiffel> from the application code. In this case, when this routine is executed, the program will wait for EiffelStudio to attach the process.
In both case, the execution will wait about 10 seconds, if EiffelStudio does not connect before, the execution will continue.
It is possible to use any available port number, for that make sure your machine does not already use the port number you choose, and that the application is authorized to open that port (for instance port 10505 is often available).

To attach the process from EiffelStudio, follow the menu path <code>Execution->Attach Debuggee</code> and provide the same port number as specified above.
(Note that you can add the associated command to the execution tool bar.)

Once EiffelStudio attached the execution, it is able to debug the application just as if the application had been launched by EiffelStudio.

