[[Property:title|Release notes for EiffelStudio 6.7]]
[[Property:link_title|6.7]]
[[Property:weight|-14]]
[[Property:uuid|17f0ad0d-6a8e-942c-37be-53466db120d5]]
==Graphical environment==

===What's new===
===Improvements===
* Allows filtering of C compiler warnings in the Error and Warning tool.
* Accepts "license.lic" and "licence.lic" as a way to perform automatic licensing during saving.
* Added filter functionality to the "Add Library" dialog.
* Added a new XML (lite) library which is void-safe without Unicode support.

===Changes===

===Bug fixes===
* Fixed some formatting issues when using the new loop form using <e>across</e>.
* Fixed the saving of the diagrams to PNG.
* Fixed bug#16831: Picking and dropping class from Features window into Editor tab clears Features window.
* Fixed issue with `libraries.cfg' files used to know where to look for libraries (the trouble was only on Windows)

==Compiler==
* Click [[Major changes between ISE Eiffel 6.6 and ISE Eiffel 6.7|here]]  for the compiler release notes.

==Debugger==
===Graphical environment===
* More compact "Execution" (debugger) menu
* Now changing the catcall detection from the exception handling dialog has immediate impact (previously the user had to interrupt and continue the execution to see the impact)
* It is now possible to open the exception dialog to visualize the CAT call warning exception at the debugger level.
* Minor change, now  Ctrl+Alt+C (or +Ins) will copy into clipboard the '''selected stacks''' '''without''' the (stack) values and Ctrl+C (or +Ins) will copy into clipboard the '''selected stacks''' '''with''' stack values (local and arguments)

===Debugger engine===
*Now handle correctly manifest string and string_32 in debugger (expression evaluation)
*Improved stepping in MT debugging session. Now the debugger stays in the same thread (instead of jumping from a thread to another without any coherence).
*Fixed void-safety issue, when trying to evaluate `Result' in watch tool (previously, it was reporting VEVI ...)

==EiffelBuild==
* Click [[EiffelBuild Version History|here]]  for the EiffelBuild release notes.

==Libraries==

===EiffelBase===
* <e>ARRAY</e>:
** Made <e>{ARRAY}.make</e> and <e>{ARRAY}.conservative_resize</e> obsolete as they are not void safe. Alternative recommendation is to use <e>{ARRAY}.make_empty</e>, <e>{ARRAY}.make_filled</e> or <e>{ARRAY}.conservative_resize_with_default</e>.
** Added <e>{ARRAY}.rebase</e> that would help creating an empty array with a given `lower'. 
** <e>BOUNDED_QUEUE</e> and <e>BOUNDED_STACK</e> have been rewritten to use the same implementation of <e>ARRAYED_QUEUE</e> and <e>ARRAYED_STACK</e>, the only difference is that `extendible' is defined to be False. The `correct_mismatch' feature has been updated to ensure retrieval.
* <e>FORMAT_DOUBLE</e>:
** Fixed eweasel test#lib036 in <e>FORMAT_DOUBLE</e> where `pad_fraction' did not process properly when one decided to not show the trailing zeros and there were only zeros after the decimal point.
** Fixed the post-condition of <e>{FORMAT_DOUBLE}.pad_fraction</e> to reflect that the count is set to `decimals' but only when one shows the trailing zeros.
* Added <e>WEAK_REFERENCE</e> to allow weak references in an Eiffel system. This supersedes the <e>IDENTIFIED</e> class which made it necessary to change one's code to allow weak referencing. Currently the class is only implemented for classic Eiffel; it is not available when compiling for .NET. 
* Added new Eiffel tracing facility classes <e>TRACING_HANDLER</e> and <e>TRACING_SETTING</e> which let you capture some information about the current execution via callbacks.
* Fixed eweasel test#list010 with twinning and deep_twinning of a <e>FIXED_LIST</e> that would reset `capacity' to `count'.
* Added <e>{TYPE}.is_expanded</e> to find out if a type is expanded or not.

===EiffelVision2===
* [[Revisions and Bug Fixes|Click here for EiffelVision2 release notes.]] 

[[EiffelStudio release notes|Click here to check out what was new in other versions]]  

