[[Property:title|Release notes for EiffelStudio 6.3]]
[[Property:link_title|6.3]]
[[Property:weight|-10]]
[[Property:uuid|524a2b27-872c-1fd9-8de1-651128f11155]]
==Graphical environment==

===What's new===
* Innovative testing tools let you automatically test your  software, extract test cases from failed execution as well as manually creating your own test cases.
* Added brace matching in the editor.
* Added ability to automatically license your Eiffel classes each time you  save a class.
* Added the '''argument_parser''' library which provides an easy way to manipulate command line arguments.
* Added a new version of the EiffelNet library with IPv6 support.  Because it has some breaking changes, the library is called '''net_ipv6''' and  can  be, in most cases, be used in place of   the original EiffelNet library.

===Improvements===
* Improved the library choice dialog which  can also be customized to include your own locations.
* Added support for <eiffel>note</eiffel> keyword and the updated <eiffel>variant</eiffel> keyword location in a loop through the environment.
* You can remove errors from the Warning and Error list tool which is practical when fixing many errors at once.
* Improved the problem report submission dialog.
* Better messaging about the installed C/C++ compiler on Windows.

===Changes===

===Bug fixes===
* Code completion works even if the <eiffel>is</eiffel> is missing.
* Fixed an installation issue of the  enterprise/evaluation release of EiffelStudio on Windows  Vista.
* Properly refreshes the Feature tool after a save or a compilation.
* Fixed browsing of .NET  classes in EiffelStudio

==Compiler==
* Click [[Major changes between ISE Eiffel 6.2 and ISE Eiffel 6.3|here]]  for the compiler release notes.

==Debugger==
* Click [[Release notes for EiffelStudio 6.3 related to the debugger|here]]  for the EiffelStudio debugger release notes.

==EiffelBuild==
* Click [[EiffelBuild Version History|here]]  for the EiffelBuild release notes.

==Libraries==

===EiffelBase===
* EiffelBase has been rewritten to be Void safe. To use the  void safe version, one has to use the '''base-safe.ecf'''  configuration file of EiffelBase. Not all libraries are void safe, so the void safe version can only be used for code that does not depend on other libraries. EiffelStudio 6.4 should provide void safe version of all libraries provided in EiffelStudio.
* Added <eiffel>sleep</eiffel> to <eiffel>EXECUTION_ENVIRONMENT</eiffel> and made <eiffel>sleep</eiffel> from <eiffel>THREAD_CONTROL</eiffel> obsolete.
* Added <eiffel>read_xxx_thread_aware</eiffel> in <eiffel>IO_MEDIUM</eiffel> so that reading a file is not blocking in a multithreaded context.
* Added the notion of read-only and immutable strings (respectively <eiffel>READABLE_STRING_8/32</eiffel> and <eiffel>IMMUTABLE_STRING_8/32</eiffel>). Because <eiffel>READABLE_STRING_8</eiffel> is deferred, some code using expression of the  form '''STRING + SYSTEM_STRING''' in .NET mode will not compile anymore. Instead one has to do '''STRING + create {STRING}.make_from_cil (SYSTEM_STRING)'''.
* Added <eiffel>{READABLE_STRING_GENERAL}.same_string</eiffel> to compare any kind of strings together. 
* Added ability to stop and start the Eiffel tracing mechanism from code using the new <eiffel>TRACING_SETTING</eiffel> class.
* Changed the default assigner for <eiffel>{TABLE}.item</eiffel> from <eiffel>put</eiffel> to <eiffel>force</eiffel> a new feature of <eiffel>TABLE</eiffel>. This allows the bracket operator on <eiffel>HASH_TABLE</eiffel> to work properly, that is to say <eiffel>hash_table [i] := j</eiffel> will indeed insert 'j' at key 'i' even if key 'i' is already present. Before it was silently doing nothing since it was using <eiffel>put</eiffel>.
* Fixed eweasel test#list012 which showed an invariant violation after twining a <eiffel>SORTED_TWO_WAY_LIST</eiffel> and then modifying the copy by adding an element. This introduces a breaking change in all descendants of <eiffel>SORTED_TWO_WAY_LIST</eiffel>.

===EiffelNet===
* EiffelNet can select on 256 ports at the same time
* Fixed on Unix improper handling of EWOULDBLOCK and EINPROGRESS error on Unix which would raise an exception instead of silently ignoring the error as it is done on Windows.
* New library for IPv6 support.

===EiffelVision2===
* [[Revisions and Bug Fixes|Click here for EiffelVision2 release notes.]] 

===EiffelVision2===

[[EiffelStudio release notes|Click here to check out what was new in other versions]]  




