[[Property:title|Release notes for EiffelStudio 6.1]]
[[Property:link_title|6.1]]
[[Property:weight|-8]]
[[Property:uuid|29bc2a0b-3327-dbd1-9d64-51484da2c40c]]
==Graphical environment==

===What's new===
* New default layout for EiffelStudio tools to highlight the most common used tools whereas other tools are still available at the bottom or via the View menu.
* New Errors and Warnings tool. It replaces the former Errors tool and Warnings tool and provides a nicer way to show errors and filtering them.
* Revisited all the dialogs to provide a nicer and consistent look and feel.
* Multiple errors are reported for each compilation degree.

===Improvements===
* Use the default OS font for displaying tooltips.
* C compilation failure will now show up as an error in the new Errors and Warnings tool.
* Completion list will now show immediately after pressing '.' when the completion list is active.
* Added ability to submit a problem report within EiffelStudio when it quits unexpectedly.

===Changes===
* Support for the MinGW C compiler on Windows 32-bit. Borland is officially not supported anymore.
* Completion list no longer shows obsolete items by default (set via a preference option).

===Bug fixes===
* Fixed incorrect results when using the profiler with a finalized system.
* More bug fixes can be seen at [http://dev.eiffel.com/EiffelStudio_6.1_Releases the EiffelStudio open source site] .

==Compiler==
* Click [[Major changes between ISE Eiffel 6.0 and ISE Eiffel 6.1|here]]  for the compiler release notes.

==Debugger==
* Click [[Release notes for EiffelStudio 6.1 related to the debugger|here]]  for the EiffelStudio debugger release notes.

==EiffelBuild==
* Click [[EiffelBuild Version History|here]]  for the EiffelBuild release notes.

==Libraries==

===EiffelBase===
* <eiffel>BINARY_SEARCH_TREE</eiffel>: Added <eiffel>tree_item</eiffel> which matches the item being searched.
* <eiffel>LINEAR</eiffel>: Added <eiffel>item_for_iteration</eiffel> as a synonym of <eiffel>item</eiffel>.
* <eiffel>STRING_8</eiffel> and <eiffel>STRING_32</eiffel>: 
** Improved speed of the <eiffel>to_xxx</eiffel> routines.
** Added <eiffel>starts_with</eiffel> and <eiffel>ends_with</eiffel>.

* <eiffel>GC_INFO</eiffel>: Fixed non working computation of CPU time usage on Windows and added two new queries (<eiffel>cpu_total_time</eiffel> and <eiffel>sys_total_time</eiffel>) to find out the total CPU execution time of the program at the last GC cycle.
* <eiffel>MEMORY</eiffel>: Added <eiffel>execute_without_collection</eiffel> to execute a procedure with no GC.

===EiffelVision2===
* [[Revisions and Bug Fixes|Click here for EiffelVision2 release notes.]] 

[[EiffelStudio release notes|Click here to check out what was new in other versions]]  




