[[Property:title|EiffelWeb Basic Sample]]
[[Property:weight|0]]
[[Property:uuid|da8f72cb-0ecd-464a-a558-cbf7d24301e3]]
This sample shows how to retrieve and display information from a basic form on a web page.

{{note|This sample requires a web server supporting CGI in order to be run. Both the Internet Information Services web server from Microsoft and the GNU Apache server may be used. 
==Compiling==

To compile the example: 
* Launch EiffelStudio. 
* Click '''Add project'''
* Browse to ''$ISE_EIFFEL\examples\web\basic\''. 
* Choose ''web.ecf''
* Choose the location where the project will be compiled, by default the same directory containing the configuration file. 
* Click '''OK'''. 

==Installing==

You should copy the file ''web_demo.exe'' in the ''cgi_bin'' directory of your web server and the file ''sample.html'' in a directory on the web server. 

==Running==

To run the example, access the page ''sample.html'' that you copied on the web server with a web browser (typically '' http://localhost/sample.html''). Fill in the text field with a username and click ''Submit''. You should see a page displaying the name you just entered. Although not earth-shattering, this sample shows the basis for building more complex forms processing in Eiffel. 

==Under the Hood==

This basic sample has just one class <eiffel>SAMPLE</eiffel> which inherits from <eiffel>CGI_INTERFACE. SAMPLE</eiffel> implements execute which retrieves the name entered in the form and creates a new <eiffel>HTML</eiffel> page with it. 



See the reference for the class interfaces. 

}}





