[[Property:title|Senate bus]]
[[Property:weight|-8]]
[[Property:uuid|cfce3b31-bb8d-8259-a02b-73fd1495fce9]]
{{UnderConstruction}}


{{Beta}}


=Description=

According to Allen Downey in his text ''[http://greenteapress.com/semaphores/ The Little Book of Semaphores],'' the Senate bus example was inspired by the [http://www.wellesley.edu/Transportation/senate.html Senate Bus at Wellesley College]. Passengers come to a bus stop to catch the Senate bus. The bus can hold 50 passengers. When the bus stops at the bus stop, the waiting passengers board. If the bus fills up, then any passengers who cannot board, must wait until the bus shows up again. Likewise, any passenger who arrives at the stop during the time the bus is boarding also must wait until the next cycle. 


=Highlights=

The root class for this example creates the bus stop, the bus, and the passengers all typed as separate. 

The bus stop, modeled by class <code>STATION</code> has features that can be used by the bus and by passengers. Access to these
features is restricted to the appropriate client classes through the clients part of the feature clause.  Clients of type <code>PASSENGER</code> can access <code>{STATION}.pass_enter</code>. A client of type <code>{BUS}</code> can access <code>{STATION}.bus_enter</code>, <code>{STATION}.pick_up</code>, and <code>{STATION}.leave</code>, as well as a status feature <code>{STATION}.bus_is_waiting</code> and two passenger queues <code>{STATION}.waiting_list</code> and <code>{STATION}.checked_in_list</code>.




