[[Property:uuid|A4F3EBA0-0E2B-4CF4-86A9-4757F7401A63]]
[[Property:weight|5]]
[[Property:title|Major changes between ISE Eiffel 15.08 and ISE Eiffel 15.12]]
[[Property:link_title|15.12]]
==What's new==
* Agents have a new type declaration. Instead of <eiffel>PROCEDURE [X, TUPLE [Y]]</eiffel>, one can now write <eiffel>PROCEDURE [Y]</eiffel> where the first generic actual parameter is not considered anymore. The compiler accepts both syntaxes but only one per project, meaning that depending on the ECF version, it will either use the old syntax or the new one, and you cannot mix both syntax within the same project.

==Improvements==
* Introduced options to select the number of types being generated in each C directory via the general.cfg located in $ISE_EIFFEL/studio/eifinit. The first option is workbench_c_basket_limit for workbench code (defaulting at 33) and the other is finalized_c_basket_limit (defaulting at 50).
* Fixed incrementality performance issues on large system. Instead of taking a few minutes at the end of degree 3 before jumping to degree 2, it will now take about 10 to 15 seconds.

==Changes==

==Bug fixes==

===Compiler issues===
* Fixed bug#19120 (test#tuple019) by reporting the tuple field name that violated VUAR(2) for the corresponding assigner command.
* Fixed test#attach049 by checking target type of boolean operators when computing scopes of variables.
* Fixed test#attach114 by checking that parenthesis may be used as parenthesis alias calls.
* Fixed test#anchor012.
* Fixed bug#17907 (test#incr417), bug#17913 (test#incr418), (in assertion-enabled mode) bug#17942 (test#incr419), test#incr432 by making sure any changes after an error fix are taken into account.
* Fixed test#attach115 by recording a qualified call as soon as there is an iteration form of a loop.
* Fixed improper type of like argument in generics (test#exec364).

===SCOOP issues===
* Fixed test#scoop74 by propagating the controlled status of an object test expression to an object test local to avoid unnecessary wrapping for this local.
* Fixed test#scoop075 by allocating a separate call data structure register before message processing and by freeing it at the end of a call so that the register does not get incorrectly reused.