[[Property:title|Documentation]]
[[Property:description|Central repository of information about Eiffel and the products and technologies of Eiffel Software]]
[[Property:weight|10]]
[[Property:uuid|68b37685-64e9-f564-9258-29e709a55f44]]
'''Eiffel Documentation'''

= Learning all about Eiffel and EiffelStudio =

This is the Eiffel documentation side, where you will find all you need to unleash the power of Eiffel. It is organized as a set of '''books''':

* The [[Eiffel|Eiffel Book]]. Eiffel is the language, but also a comprehensive method of quality software development. The Eiffel Book includes:
** [[Eiffel Overview|Eiffel overview]]: to get a general idea of what Eiffel is about (or to refresh your view if you haven’t followed Eiffel recently.
** [[Eiffel Tutorials|Eiffel tutorials]]: step-by-step presentation of Eiffel concepts and constructs. There are
** [[Language reference|Language reference]]: construct-by-construct description, for when you need a precise specification of a particular mechanism.
** [[Technical papers about Eiffel|Eiffel technical papers]]: tutorial presentations of specific Eiffel highlights, such as void safety and SCOOP (the concurrency mechanism).
* The [[EiffelStudio|EiffelStudio Book]]. EiffelStudio is the multi-platform IDE (interactive development environment) supporting Eiffel development: compilation, execution, browsing, metrics, graphics-based design etc. The EiffelStudio book includes:
** [[Introducing EiffelStudio|EiffelStudio overview]]
** [[Setup and installation|EiffelStudio installation instructions]]
** [[EiffelStudio tutorials|EiffelStudio Tutorial]]
** [[Technical papers about EiffelStudio|EiffelStudio technical papers]] on specific EiffelStudio concepts and tools
* The [[Solutions|Solutions Book]]. EiffelStudio comes with myriad libraries, packages and tools to help your development. The Solutions Book includes:
** Libraries (data structures, graphics, networking…)
** Packages
** Tools
* The [[Glossary|Glossary Book]]: clear definitions of the precise concepts (feature, routine, attribute, contract…) underlying Eiffel.
* The [[FAQs|FAQs Book]]: everything you always wanted to ask about Eiffel, from whether it is available in open source (hint: yes, it is) to what books and articles are available (hint: lots).


<!--break-->

'''Other sources of information on Eiffel include:'''
* The [https://eiffel.com Eiffel.com] website
** Eiffel Software's website [http://eiffel.com Eiffel.com] contains an enormous amount of information about Eiffel. There are product descriptions, special pages for developers and their managers, case studies and testimonials, the latest Eiffel news, and much more.

* [http://eiffel.com/developers/presentations/ Web Presentations] on Eiffel.com
** Learn quickly about Eiffel and the things that help make it special, like Design by Contract and EiffelStudio. Learn how Eiffel fits in with and compares to other popular technologies. All this and more is available on the [http://eiffel.com/developers/presentations/ presentations page] on Eiffel.com. 

* The [http://www.eiffelroom.com/ EiffelRoom] Website
** [http://www.eiffelroom.com/ EiffelRoom] is an Eiffel community website on which Eiffel developers from across the globe come together and share their experiences ... and their products. You'll find how-to articles, tips and tricks, example code, whole libraries of EIffel classes, and specialized products. It is easy to contribute to EiffelRoom and start giving back to the community.

* The [http://groups.eiffel.com/ Eiffel Software User Group]
** The Eiffel Software Users' Group is a focus group for those who use the products of Eiffel Software. Its primary communication vehicle is a [http://groups.eiffel.com/ collaborative discussion group]. The group mailing list is monitored by Eiffel Software developers and many highly experienced Eiffel programmers. So if you have questions or comments about Eiffel Software products, this is a good place to be.

* [[Object-oriented Software Construction, 2nd Edition|Object-Oriented Software Construction, 2nd Edition]]
** There is no better place to gain an in-depth understanding of the Eiffel software development method than [[OOSC2|Object-Oriented Software Construction, 2nd Edition]], by Bertrand Meyer, published by Prentice Hall. It is the world's most complete guide to building great object-oriented software.

* Other [[Books about the Eiffel Method and Language|books about the Eiffel Method and Language]]
* The Standard:  ''Eiffel: Analysis, Design, and Programming Language''
** Eiffel has been standardized under ISO and ECMA. The comprehensive description of the standard Eiffel programming language is presented in [http://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-367.htm Standard ECMA-367].

