[[Property:modification_date|Tue, 08 Dec 2020 10:06:55 GMT]]
[[Property:publication_date|Tue, 08 Dec 2020 08:39:55 GMT]]
[[Property:uuid|789BFB80-6C53-4E92-B061-C0C1758838DB]]
[[Property:title|Release notes for EiffelStudio 20.11]]
[[Property:link_title|20.11]]
[[Property:weight|-5]]
==Graphical environment==
* AutoTest was updated to make it compatible with void safety.
* Added a pretty printer notification when the current code  could be nicer.
* Added preferences to control default values of CAT-call detection in the debugger and reporting in the console.
*  Fixed the customized formater editor dialog.
* Added a new WrapC wizard (C wrapping utility)
* Made the code analyzer more pertinent for CA022 violations(unreachable code)

==Compiler==
* Support for once classes.
* Extended the message about successful compilation with a notification if warnings were reported.
* Dropped support for obsolete syntax with exclamation marks (creation, and type attachment marks).

==Libraries==
*  All the *-safe.ecf were removed as they are obsolete due to the notion of capabilities introduced a few releases ago.
* Improved the web CMS by removing various potential vulnerabilities, improving the web form api and the authentication system. Updated recaptcha support to version 3.
* New library "uri_launcher" in library/runtime/process/uri_launcher
* Extended the (unstable) base_extension library with classes for graphs, B-trees, and union-find.
* 3 new wrappers for mpack, cairo, and rsvg C libraries (available via https://iron.eiffel.com/)

----

See [https://dev.eiffel.com/EiffelStudio_20.11_Releases change log] for more details.