[[Property:uuid|05AF3CEC-7026-498F-9177-79D2BA4469A0]]
[[Property:weight|0]]
[[Property:title|Release notes for EiffelStudio 15.12]]
[[Property:link_title|15.12]]
==Graphical environment==

===What's new===
EiffelStudio has been updated to support the new agent's type notation which removes the first actual generic parameter, this change impacts the various wizards and all the Eiffel code included in the EiffelStudio delivery

==Compiler==
* Click [[Major changes between ISE Eiffel 15.08 and ISE Eiffel 15.12|here]] for the compiler release notes.

==Debugger==
N/A

==EiffelBuild==
* Click [[EiffelBuild Version History|here]]  for the EiffelBuild release notes.

==Libraries==
===General===
All libraries have been updated to the latest syntax for the agent's type.

===Base===
* Exported `read_to_string' from FILE to allow user side buffering.

===Preferences===
* Added a precondition to `add_parent_structure_preference_row' and `formatted_name' that a preference name cannot be empty (this might be the case when preference names get erroneously converted from non-ASCII strings, e.g. as it was with incorrect implementation of code analysis preferences).
* Avoided automatic formatting of a preference name if it has whitespace to allow for preference names with underscore characters or those that are pre-formatted.
* Added a creation procedure to pass a preference grid control explicitly in case some fine-tuning is needed.
* Changed type of preference values to READABLE_STRING_32 to avoid conversion when the values are loaded from XML where values are returned as READABLE_STRING_32.

===XML===
* Fixed issue with xml source file having the %R character for the custom parser which would be ignored.
* Fixed xml parsing issue with CDATA endings with ]]]. For instance <![CDATA[Foo bar ref [1]]]>
* Provided a basic implementation to output character data as <[!CDATA[ ... ]]> for xml printer.
[[EiffelStudio release notes|Click here to check out what was new in other versions]]

