[[Property:title|Properties]]
[[Property:weight|5]]
[[Property:uuid|0d46c1eb-bce4-2d67-0272-da4aa5950c65]]
The Properties cluster contains all the common properties available for EiffelVision 2 [[Widgets|widgets]]  and [[Items|items]]. Every EiffelVision 2 widget has the same set of properties inherited from EV_WIDGET, but many widgets also inherit additional properties, further refining the behavior of the widget. 

EV_WIDGET inherits the following properties: 
*  [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_pick_and_dropable_chart|EV_PICK_AND_DROPABLE]]  
** For an overview of the Pick and Drop mechanism, click [[EiffelVision Pick and Drop|here]] . 

*  [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_sensitive_chart|EV_SENSITIVE]]  
**  If an EiffelVision 2 component inherits from [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_sensitive_chart|EV_SENSITIVE]], it can be made to ignore events. <br/>
:::Use <eiffel>disable_sensitive</eiffel> to disable event handling, and <eiffel>enable_sensitive</eiffel> to restore event handling. 

*  [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_colorizable_chart|EV_COLORIZABLE]]  
**  If a EiffelVision 2 component inherits from [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_colorizable_chart|EV_COLORIZABLE]], it has facilities for modifying its foreground and background colors. <br/>
:::Use <eiffel>set_foreground_color</eiffel> to set <eiffel>foreground_color</eiffel> and <eiffel>set_background_color</eiffel> to set <eiffel>background_color</eiffel>. <br/>
:::Use <eiffel>set_default_colors</eiffel> to restore the colors to their defaults.

*  [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_help_contextable_chart|EV_HELP_CONTEXTABLE]]  
**  If a EiffelVision 2 component inherits from [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_help_contextable_chart|EV_HELP_CONTEXTABLE]], facilities are provided for associating help to the component when F1 or Shift F1 is pressed.

*  [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_positioned_chart|EV_POSITIONED]]  
**  If a EiffelVision 2 component inherits from [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_positioned_chart|EV_POSITIONED]], it is possible to query its current position, size and minimum size. <br/>
:::Use <eiffel>x_position</eiffel> and <eiffel>y_position</eiffel> to find its position relative to its parent. <br/>
:::Use <eiffel>width</eiffel> and <eiffel>height</eiffel> to find its size. <br/>
:::Use <eiffel>minimum_width</eiffel> and <eiffel>minimum_height</eiffel> to find its minimum size.

*  [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_containable_chart|EV_CONTAINABLE]]  
**  If a EiffelVision 2 component inherits from [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_containable_chart|EV_CONTAINABLE]], it is able make calls on its parent. Use <eiffel>parent</eiffel> to make calls on the current parent.


{{note|[[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_containable_chart|EV_CONTAINABLE]]  has no features for setting the parent. In EiffelVision 2, a child has no features for setting its parent, while a parent such a descendant of EV_CONTAINER contains routines for adding children (one example is <eiffel>extend</eiffel>). }}


The following are several more properties used within EiffelVision 2: 
* [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_deselectable_chart|EV_DESELECTABLE]] 
* [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_drawable_chart|EV_DRAWABLE]] 
* [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_fontable_chart|EV_FONTABLE]] 
* [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_pixmapable_chart|EV_PIXMAPABLE]] 
* [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_positionable_chart|EV_POSITIONABLE]] 
* [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_selectable_chart|EV_SELECTABLE]] 
* [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_textable_chart|EV_TEXTABLE]] 
* [[ref:libraries/vision2/reference/ev_tooltipable_chart|EV_TOOLTIPABLE]] 

For a full list of properties available, see the "interface/properties" sub-cluster of the EiffelVision 2 library.


