[[Property:title|eif_*_function]]
[[Property:weight|15]]
[[Property:uuid|643603a5-de12-1ffc-2da3-92c8475078e8]]
==Overview==

This page documents all CECIL functions of the form eif_*_function where "*" is a supported type such as "integer", "bit", "character", "real", etc.


{{note|All pages titled with those same patterns, (e. g., [[eif_reference_function]], [[eif_integer_function]]) will '''redirect''' to this page. }}


==Synopsis==
<code lang="text">
#include "eif_cecil.h"

EIF_REFERENCE_FUNCTION eif_reference_function (char * name, int * tid);

EIF_INTEGER_FUNCTION eif_integer_function (char * name, int * tid);

EIF_CHARACTER_FUNCTION eif_character_function (char * name, int * tid);

EIF_REAL_FUNCTION eif_real_function (char * name, int * tid);

EIF_DOUBLE_FUNCTION eif_double_function (char * name, int * tid);

EIF_BOOLEAN_FUNCTION eif_boolean_function (char * name, int * tid);

EIF_POINTER_FUNCTION eif_pointer_function (char * name, int * tid);

EIF_BIT_FUNCTION eif_bit_function (char * name, int * tid);
</code>

==Description==

These functions return the address of the Eiffel function of name <code lang="text">name</code> from the class, which type identifier is <code lang="text">tid</code>.

{| border="1"
! Use this function !! For an Eiffel function returning 
|-
| eif_reference_function
| Eiffel reference
|-
| eif_integer_function
| Eiffel integer
|-
| eif_character_function
| Eiffel character
|-
| eif_real_function
| Eiffel real
|-
| eif_double_function
| Eiffel double
|-
| eif_boolean_function
| Eiffel boolean
|-
| eif_pointer_function
| Eiffel pointer
|-
| eif_bit_function
| Eiffel bit
|}


If the visible exception is enabled, it raises an visible exception upon failure. 

==Return value==

Successful: The address of the function.

Failing: NULL (function does not exist or is not visible). 

==Notes==

The Eiffel function cannot be a C external. In this case, you must directly call the C routine.

The return value is an address: to use it as a routine, you must call it with arguments or at least with (). 

No argument type checking is done. You may cast the address of an Eiffel routine, obtained with these functions, when calling it with real arguments. 

If the function returns an Eiffel reference, you must protect it with [[eif_protect]]. 

==Conformance==
ISE Eiffel 4.4 and later. 

==Compatibility==

Compatibility with deprecated functions is shown in this table.


{| border="1"
! Function name !! Equivalent deprecated function name
|-
| eif_reference_function
| eif_fn_ref
|-
| eif_integer_function
| eif_fn_int
|-
| eif_real_function
| eif_fn_float
|-
| eif_double_function
| eif_fn_double
|-
| eif_character_function
| eif_fn_char
|-
| eif_bit_function
| eif_fn_bit
|-
| eif_boolean_function
| eif_fn_bool
|-
| eif_pointer_function
| eif_fn_pointer
|}


{{SeeAlso| <br/>
[[eif_type_id]]<br/>
[[eif_protect]]<br/>
[[eif_procedure]] }} 




