[[Property:title|Guide]]
[[Property:link_title|Information Guide]]
[[Property:weight|-10]]
[[Property:uuid|68b37685-64e9-f564-9258-29e709a55f44]]
'''Guide to Eiffel Information'''

These pages are the central repository of information about Eiffel and the products and technologies of Eiffel Software.

The documentation is organized into virtual books. Each book covers an important aspect of the world of Eiffel.

* [[Guide]] -- Guide to Eiffel Information
* [[EiffelStudio]] -- The EiffelStudio Interactive Development Environment
* [[Solutions]] -- Eiffel Solutions, Technologies, and Class Libraries
* [[Platform specifics]] -- Specific support for particular platforms, e.g., Microsoft Windows 
* [[Method|Method and Language]] -- The Eiffel Method and Language
* [[Why Eiffel?]] -- Why Eiffel?
* [[Papers]] -- Technical and position papers relating to Eiffel and the engineering of high quality software
* [[Community]] -- Community Contributions
<!--break-->
Sources of information on Eiffel include:

==Books in the Eiffel Documentation==
----

===[[Guide]] -- Guide to Eiffel Information===

:You are reading this book now.

===[[EiffelStudio]] -- The EiffelStudio Interactive Development Environment===

:Information about installing and using EiffelStudio

===[[Solutions]] -- Eiffel Solutions, Technologies, and Class Libraries===

:Technologies available with Eiffel provide solutions to many ordinary development needs ... and some extraordinary needs too. This book addresses these requirements and the Eiffel technologies that satisfy them.

===[[Platform specifics]] -- Support for particular operating systems===

:Although most  Eiffel technology is completely platform-independent, Eiffel also provides important platform-specific solutions, described in this book.

===[[Method|Method and Language]] -- The Eiffel Method and Language===

:Materials promoting the understanding of the Eiffel software development method and Eiffel the language.

===[[Why Eiffel?]] -- Why Eiffel? ===

:A summary of the arguments for using Eiffel.

===[[Papers]] -- Technical and position papers relating to Eiffel===

:This book is a place for white papers which provide background, foundation, or supplemental information about the the Eiffel method and language as well as the goal of engineering high quality software. 

===[[Community]] -- You can contribute to the documentation!===

:EiffelStudio documentation is available in a convenient Wiki format. This makes it possible to improve the documentation continuously and make sure it is always up to date.



'''Community input''' is welcome. If you are interested in improving and developing EiffelStudio documentation, you can become a ''contributor'' or ''editor'':

* Contributors can edit existing pages in any book and add pages to Community Contributions books.

* Editors can modify and add pages in any book (including adding Community Contribution pages to an existing book).

To become a contributor, you should be proficient in Eiffel technology and have good written English skills. To become an editor, you should already have made significant improvements or additions as a contributor.

If you are interested in becoming a contributor, please send an email to info@eiffel.com with a short description of your Eiffel experience and any other relevant background. We look forward to your contributions!



----

==Other sources of information on Eiffel==

----


===The [http://eiffel.com Eiffel.com] website===

Eiffel Software's website [http://eiffel.com Eiffel.com] contains an enormous amount of information about Eiffel. There are product descriptions, special pages for developers and their managers, case studies and testimonials, the latest Eiffel news, and much more.


----

===[http://eiffel.com/developers/presentations/ Web Presentations] on Eiffel.com===

Learn quickly about Eiffel and the things that help make it special, like Design by Contract and EiffelStudio. Learn how Eiffel fits in with and compares to other popular technologies. All this and more is available on the [http://eiffel.com/developers/presentations/ presentations page] on Eiffel.com. 


----

===[http://eiffel.com/developers/learning_maps/ Learning Maps] on Eiffel.com===

Get an in-depth view of topics by navigating the [http://eiffel.com/developers/learning_maps/ Eiffel Learning Maps]. Learning maps represent knowledge as a network of interrelated concepts. Attached to the concepts you may find links to additional resources. These resources can be just about anything. You'll find plain text files, web pages, screen shots, and even Eiffel Learnlets. Learnlets are small units of learning in web presentation form that are designed to take no more than 30 minutes to view ... just right for your lunch break.


----

===The [http://www.eiffelroom.com/ EiffelRoom] Website===

[http://www.eiffelroom.com/ EiffelRoom] is an Eiffel community website on which Eiffel developers from across the globe come together and share their experiences ... and their products. You'll find how-to articles, tips and tricks, example code, whole libraries of EIffel classes, and specialized products. It is easy to contribute to EiffelRoom and start giving back to the community.


----

===The Eiffel Software User Group===

The Eiffel Software Users' Group is a focus group for those who use the products of Eiffel Software. Its primary communication vehicle is a [http://groups.eiffel.com/ collaborative discussion group]. The group mailing list is monitored by Eiffel Software developers and many highly experienced Eiffel programmers. So if you have questions or comments about Eiffel Software products, this is a good place to be.


----

===The EiffelWorld Newsletter===

A few times a year, we send out an email newsletter containing announcements of new versions of products, upcoming events, newly added technologies, website changes, editorials, and contributions from the community. To subscribe send a request to [mailto:info@eiffel.com info@eiffel.com].


----

===[[Object-Oriented Software Construction, 2nd Edition]]===

There is no better place to gain an in-depth understanding of the Eiffel software development method than [[Object-Oriented Software Construction, 2nd Edition]], by Bertrand Meyer, published by Prentice Hall. It is the world's most complete guide to building great object-oriented software.


----

===ECMA-367 Eiffel: Analysis, Design, and Programming Language===

Eiffel has been standardized under ECMA and ISO. The comprehensive description of the standard Eiffel language is presented in [http://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-367.htm Standard ECMA-367].


----

===Contribute to Eiffel===

You can help Eiffel by contributing your time, expertise, and products. Here are some websites that you can visit to see what's up with the development of Eiffel Software products. 

====[http://dev.eiffel.com dev.eiffel.com]====

:This [http://dev.eiffel.com wiki site] is the hub of development activity for the EiffelStudio interactive development environment. Even if you do not plan to contribute, dev.eiffel.com is a valuable source of information concerning where EiffelStudio is going ... and, if you're curious, where it has been.

====[http://eiffelstudio.origo.ethz.ch/ EiffelStudio on Origo]====

:[http://eiffelstudio.origo.ethz.ch/ EiffelStudio on Origo] contains blogs and forums focusing on Eiffel and EiffelStudio topics.

