[[Property:title|Feature menu]]
[[Property:weight|3]]
[[Property:uuid|a662251b-777d-5e28-0e52-ba4932195528]]
The Feature Menu enables you to find properties of a feature:
<code>
	(A) Ancestors    : show the ancestor versions of a feature.
	(C) Callers      : show the callers of a feature.
	(D) Descendants  : show the descendant versions of a feature.
	(F) Flat         : show the flat form of a feature.
	(O) Homonyms     : shown the homonyms of a feature.
	(I) Implementers : show the classes implementing a feature.
	(T) Text         : show the text of a feature.

	(H) Help         : show list of commands.
	(M) Main         : go back to main menu.
	(Q) Quit         : terminate session.
	(Y) Yank         : yank (save) output of last command to a file.
</code>

Each command will prompt you for the name of a class, the name of a feature in that class and a filter name; you can specify these names (or just the class name) after the command.
{| 
|- 
| <center>'''Command'''</center>
| <center>'''Description'''</center>
|- 
| <code>Ancestors</code>
| All the versions of a feature that appeared in ancestors.
|- 
| <!Unavailable:vertical_alignment!><code>Callers</code>
|  The list of classes which contains calls to the feature. Modifiers: 
* <code>All senders</code> - include all callers rather than only those in the specified class
* <code>Only assigners</code> - restrict callers to those that use given feature only as a target of an assignment instruction
* <code>Only creators</code> - restrict callers to those that use given feature only as a target of a creation instruction

|- 
| <code>Descendants</code>
| All the versionsof a feature that appeared in descendants.
|- 
| <code>Implementers</code>
| The list of classes where the feature is redeclared.
|}




