[[Property:title|MANUAL IDENTIFICATION AND COPYRIGHT]]
[[Property:link_title|Manual identification and copyright]]
[[Property:weight|7]]
Title: ''EiffelStudio: A Guided Tour'', Eiffel Software Technical Report TR-EI-68/GT. (Replaces TR-EI-38/EB.) 

===Publication history===

First published 1993 as ''First Steps with EiffelBench'' (TR-EI-38/EB) and revised as a chapter of ''Eiffel: The Environment'' [http://www.eiffel.com/doc/ (TR-EI-39/IE), also available as]  <span>An Object-Oriented Environment</span> (Prentice Hall, 1994, ISBN 0-13-245-507-2. 

Version 3.3.8, 1995.

Version 4.1, 1997

This version: July 2001. Corresponds to release 5.0 of the EiffelStudio environment.

===Author===
''Bertrand Meyer'' 
===Software credits===

Emmanuel Stapf, Arnaud Pichery, Xavier Rousselot, Raphael Simon; Etienne Amodeo, Jrome Bou Aziz, Vincent Brendel, Gauthier Brillaud, Paul Colin de Verdiere, Jocelyn Fiat, Pascal Freund, Savrak Sar, Patrick Schonbach, Zoran Simic, Jacques Sireude, Tanit Talbi, Emmanuel Texier, Guillaume Wong-So; EiffelVision 2: Leila Ait-Kaci, Sylvain Baron, Sami Kallio, Ian King, Sam O'Connor, Julian Rogers. See also acknowledgments for earlier versions in ''Eiffel: The Environment''(TR-EI-39/IE) 

Non-Eiffel Software: special thanks to Thomas Beale, Eric Bezault, Paul Cohen, Paul-Georges Crismer, Michael Gacsaly, Dave Hollenberg, Mark Howard, Randy John, Eirik Mangseth, Glenn Maughan, Jacques Silberstein. 

===Cover design===

Rich Ayling. 

===Copyright notice and proprietary information===

Copyright Interactive Software Engineering Inc. (Eiffel Software), 2001. May not be reproduced in any form (including electronic storage) without the written permission of Eiffel Software. "Eiffel Power" and the Eiffel Power logo are trademarks of Eiffel Software.

All uses of the product documented here are subject to the terms and conditions of the Eiffel Software user license. Any other use or duplication is a violation of the applicable laws on copyright, trade secrets and intellectual property. 

Any third-party products mentioned in this document are hereby acknowledged as trademarks of their respective owners. 

===Special duplication permission for educational institutions===

Degree-granting educational institutions using EiffelStudio teaching purposes as part of the <span> [http://www.eiffel.com/educators/resources.html Eiffel University Partnership Program]  </span> may be permitted under certain conditions to copy specific parts of this book. Contact Eiffel Software for details. 
{| 
|- 
| <center>'''About Eiffel Software ''' </center>
|- 
| 
Eiffel Software (Interactive Software Engineering) helps you produce software better, faster and cheaper. 

Eiffel Software provides a wide range of products and services based on object technology, including EiffelStudio, a complete development environment for the full system lifecycle. Eiffel Software's training courses, available worldwide, cover key management and technical topics. Eiffel Software's consultants are available to address your project needs at all levels. 

Eiffel Software's TOOLS (Technology of Object-Oriented Languages and Systems) conferences, [http://www.tools-conferences.com http://www.tools-conferences.com]  , are the meeting point for anyone interested in the software technologies of the future.

Eiffel Software originated one of the earliest .NET products and offers a full range of .NET services and training at [http://www.dotnetexperts.com http://www.dotnetexperts.com] .

For more information <br/>
<br/>
Interactive Software Engineering Inc.<br/>
Eiffel Software Building, 360 Storke Road<br/>
Goleta, CA 93117 USA<br/>
Telephone 805-685-1006, Fax 805-685-6869 <br/>
<br/>
Internet and e-mail 

Eiffel Software maintains a rich source of information at [http://www.eiffel.com http://www.eiffel.com]  , with more than 1200 Web pages including online documentation, downloadable files, product descriptions, links to Eiffel Software partners, University Partnership program, mailing list archives, announcements, press coverage, Frequently Asked Questions, Support pages, and much more. 

Visit [http://www.eiffel.com/general/contact_details.html http://www.eiffel.com/general/contact_details.html]  to request information about products and services. To subscribe to the Eiffel Software user list, go to[http://groups.eiffel.com/join  http://groups.eiffel.com/join] .

Support programs 

Eiffel Software offers a variety of support options tailored to the diverse needs of its customers. See [http://support.eiffel.com http://support.eiffel.com]  for details. 

|}




