[[Property:modification_date|Fri, 26 Jun 2020 11:00:55 GMT]]
[[Property:publication_date|Fri, 22 May 2020 15:44:58 GMT]]
[[Property:uuid|99393109-3E37-4A3C-82FC-6509444BC948]]
[[Property:title|Release notes for EiffelStudio 20.05]]
[[Property:link_title|20.05]]
[[Property:weight|-4]]
==Graphical environment==
* Supported search for Unicode strings in the editor.
* Extended code completion with Unicode symbols.
* Added a command line option `-reset_ide_layout` to reset IDE layout.

==Compiler==
* Supported multi-branch expressions that are similar to multi-branch instructions, but `Then_part`s and `Else_part` contain expressions instead of instruction sequences.
* Changed evaluation of untyped manifest strings to treat them as being of type <code lang="eiffel">STRING_32</code> if they contain characters with code points above 255.

==Libraries==
* Supported direct Unicode output to text files and console with <code lang="eiffel">{PLAIN_TEXT_FILE}.put_string_32</code>.
* Updated web related libraries to be closer to recommendations and specifications (wikitext, feed with atom and rss, xml, and CMS xhtml page generation).
* Generated many [https://iron.eiffel.com/repository/20.05/package/?query=tag%3Awrapc wrappers of C libraries] with `wrap_c` tool: yaml, sdl, libusb, quirc, libqrencode, libgit2, gsl, tidy, etc.
* Added [https://www.eiffel.org/blog/Alexander%20Kogtenkov/2020/06/unicode-aliases Unicode aliases] for existing features in classes <code lang="eiffel">BOOLEAN</code>, <code lang="eiffel">COMPARABLE</code>, <code lang="eiffel">NUMERIC</code> and their descendants.
* Changed behavior of <code lang="eiffel">{CHARACTER_8}.to_lower</code> and <code lang="eiffel">{CHARACTER_8}.to_upper</code> by interpreting <code lang="eiffel">STRING_8</code> as encoded according to ISO 8859-1.
* Marked <code lang="eiffel">{READABLE_STRING_GENERAL}.plus</code> as obsolete to avoid potential data loss. Added sized variants of the feature in sized variants of string classes.
* Added several implicit conversions from non-32-bit strings to <code lang="eiffel">STRING_32</code> and its variants.
----

See [https://dev.eiffel.com/EiffelStudio_20.05_Releases change log] for more details.