[[Property:title|Supported C compilers]]
[[Property:weight|-14]]
[[Property:uuid|4d4a70fa-b6da-cecb-83e0-dcc18d6ed54a]]
==Unix/Linux Users:==

EiffelStudio supports `gcc` on most platforms and the native `cc` compiler if it is an ANSI C compiler.


==Microsoft Windows Users==

EiffelStudio supports Microsoft and MinGW compilers on Microsoft Windows.

===Microsoft Visual C++ Users===

By default the installation program will set in the registry keys the <code lang="text">ISE_C_COMPILER</code> key to `msc`.

EiffelStudio supports only version 14.0 and higher of the Microsoft Visual C++ environment. This is available in Visual Studio 2005 or higher revision, or in version of the Windows SDK 6.1 or higher.

EiffelStudio will automatically detect the location of the C compiler.

===MinGW Users:===

By default the installation program will set in the registry keys the <code lang="text">ISE_C_COMPILER</code> key to `mingw`.

In versions as late as 6.6, there is a [[EiffelCOM Wizard Guided Tour|restriction]] that prevents the use of EiffelCOM with the MinGW compiler.

===Changing your C compiler on Windows===

You can do it in either of two different ways. 

You can manually edit the registry key <code lang="text">HKLM\Software\ISE\EiffelNN</code> and change the value of the <code lang="text">ISE_C_COMPILER</code> string key to either `msc` or `mingw` depending upon the effect you desire.

Alternatively, you can set the environment variable <code lang="text">ISE_C_COMPILER</code> to either `msc` or `mingw`.



