[[Property:title|Documentation]]
[[Property:description|Central repository of information about Eiffel and the products and technologies of Eiffel Software]]
[[Property:weight|10]]
[[Property:uuid|15C8B9DB-5151-4B36-9FF0-55D13A8C5164]]
= Documentation =

This is the Eiffel documentation site, with a wealth or resources on how to unleash the power of Eiffel. It is organized as a set of '''books''':

* [[Eiffel]]. Eiffel is the language, but also a comprehensive method of quality software development. The Eiffel book includes:
** [[Eiffel Overview|Eiffel overview]]: to get a general idea of Eiffel, or refresh your view if you haven't followed recent evolutions.
** [[Eiffel Tutorials|Eiffel tutorials]]: step-by-step presentation of Eiffel concepts and constructs, including:
** [[Language reference|Language reference]]: Precise construct-by-construct descriptions.
** [[Technical papers about Eiffel|Eiffel technical papers]]: tutorial presentations of specific Eiffel highlights, such as void safety and SCOOP (the concurrency mechanism).
* [[EiffelStudio]]. EiffelStudio is the multi-platform IDE (interactive development environment) for Eiffel. The EiffelStudio book includes:
** [[Introducing EiffelStudio]].
** [[Setup and installation]].
** [[EiffelStudio tutorials]]
** [[Technical papers about EiffelStudio|Technical papers]] on specific concepts and tools
* [[Solutions]]. EiffelStudio comes with numerous libraries, packages and tools. The Solutions book includes:
** Libraries (data structures, graphics, networking…)
** Packages
** Tools
* [[Glossary]]: clear definitions of the precise concepts (feature, routine, attribute, contract…) underlying Eiffel.
* [[FAQs]]: everything else you always wanted to ask about Eiffel.

