[[Property:title|Variable Definition]]
[[Property:weight|3]]
[[Property:uuid|7705ab33-a505-7711-a106-5fedd2e1040e]]
==Sources of variables==

EIS supports following types of variables which can be used in '''Source''' of annotation list. 
*  EiffelStudio installation built-in variables 
** ISE_WIKI = http://dev.eiffel.com 
** EIFFELROOM = http://www.eiffelroom.com 
** ISE_DOC = http://docs.eiffel.com  
** ISE_DOC_UUID = http://doc.eiffel.com/isedoc/uuid  
** ISE_DOC_REF = http://doc.eiffel.com/isedoc/eis  

*  Other EiffelStudio built-in variables
**  system_path = The path of the system being annotated

*  Context related built-in variables. These variables can be used in specific context. For instance, '''feature_name''' refers to the name of the feature with which an annotation is associated. 
**  feature_name 
**  class_name 
**  group_name 
**  target_name 

{{note|A context related built-in variable is only valid in a annotation that is associated with a component to which the variable name refers. For example, '''feature_name''' has no effect if used in a '''target''' component.}}

*  Individual system or library preference variables. This kind of variable is defined in your Project Settings. Manage these variables by following this path in the System tree on the left of the Project Setting dialog:
<code lang="text">
	System -> Target -> Advanced -> Variables
</code>

*  Environment variables. Variables defined in the operating system environment. 


==Accessing variables from the Information tool==

When you use the Information tool, the list of all available variables is available through auto-completion when you are typing in an entry under the '''Source''' column of the annotations list. You may either type the dollar-sign '''"$"''' or '''"Ctrl + Space"''' to invoke auto-completion. What you will see in this case is the entire list of available variables, as enumerated above. Bear in mind that this includes all environment variables defined in your operating system environment, which means that some of the entries shown would not be appropriate for use as variables for EIS purposes.



