[[Property:title|Keywords automatic completion preferences]]
[[Property:weight|1]]
==Description==

Keywords completion preferences can be found in the subdirectories of "Automatic completion" (located in "Editor" ->"Eiffel"). Keywords are located in subdirectories as described below :
* Class structure keywords: 
** class
** creation
** feature
** indexing
** inherit

* Feature structure keywords 
** is
** require
** require else
** local
** do
** deferred
** external
** rescue
** ensure
** ensure then

* Control structures keywords 
** if
** then
** elseif
** else
** inspect
** when
** from
** variant
** until
** loop
** debug
** check

* Inherit clauses keywords 
** rename
** redefine
** undefine
** select
** export

* Other keywords 
** Precursor
** create
** obsolete
** invariant
** end


==Usage==

A directory is associated with each keyword. These directories contains six items which you may modify to customize the automatic completion of the keyword:
*  
Autocomplete <keyword>: If this is set to True, the automatic completion will be triggered when you type the keyword in the editor. If it is set to False, the keyword will be processed as a normal word.

*  
Use default autocomplete: If this is set to True, the next preferences will be ignored and the default completion scheme will be used. Otherwise, the automatic completion will use the user-defined strings described below.

*  
Customized autocomplete (Return after keyword was typed): This [[Keyword completion customization|string]]  defines what will be inserted as you press Return just after typing the keyword if you chose not to use the [[Default values for keyword completion preferences|default value]]  (see Use default autocomplete above). 

*  
Customized autocomplete (Space after keyword was typed): This [[Keyword completion customization|string]]  defines what will be inserted as you press Space just after typing the keyword if you chose not to use the [[Default values for keyword completion preferences|default value]]  (see Use default autocomplete above). 

*  
Customized autocomplete (Return, other cases): This [[Keyword completion customization|string]]  defines what will be inserted as you press Return after a keyword which had been previously typed. It is effective only if you chose not to use the [[Default values for keyword completion preferences|default value]]  (see Use default autocomplete above). 

*  
Customized autocomplete (Space, other cases): This [[Keyword completion customization|string]]  defines what will be inserted as you press Space after a keyword which had been previously typed. It is effective only if you chose not to use the [[Default values for keyword completion preferences|default value]]  (see Use default autocomplete above). 

The syntax used in the four last item is described in [[Keyword completion customization|Keyword completion customization]] . [[Default values for keyword completion preferences|Default values]]  are accessible in Keyword completion default values. 



